<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_gd2_ssq_twb">
    <title>Limitations</title>
    <body>
        <p>As theme files are a relatively recent innovation from the team behind the DITA-OT, there
            are limitations to what you can do with them. With new releases of the toolkit, there
            may well be further functionality added but theme files will likely not replace all the
            functionality you can achieve by building a custom PDF plugin. There are several reasons
            for this:</p>
        <ul>
            <li>
                <p>Theme files only interact with the XSL attributes files in the PDF2 plugin. They
                    do not change anything in the XSLT templates. This means advanced configuration
                    of  PDFs (for example adding bookmap variables to a cover page) is not
                    possible.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>There are also not insignificant financial reasons for not developing theme files
                    beyond a certain point. Many supporters of the DITA-OT are DITA consultants who
                    make a living out of writing custom PDF and other DITA-OT plugins, and they
                    would not be happy if there was tool that allowed customers to do it for
                    themselves.</p>
                <p>Similarly, some of the DITA-OT's sponsors are software houses that sell tools for
                    producing PDF output from DITA (such as Syncrosoft's <xref
                        href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/styles_basket.html" format="html"
                        scope="external">Oxygen Styles Basket</xref>, or Antenna House's <xref
                        href="https://www.antennahouse.com/dita" format="html" scope="external"
                        >PDF5-ML</xref> plugin). Any open source tool that seriously rivalled their
                    proprietary offerings could ultimately affect the DITA-OT project's funding. Of
                    course that does not mean that an independent developer could not develop such
                    an open source tool based on theme files.</p>
            </li>
        </ul>
        <section id="section_udk_nxp_twb">
            <title>So what can't you do with theme files?</title>
            <p>Having created several PDF templates now using theme files, here are some limitations
                that I found:</p>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Front covers</b> - Other than <codeph translate="no">&lt;title></codeph>,
                            <codeph translate="no">&lt;booktitle></codeph> and <codeph
                            translate="no">&lt;booktitlealt></codeph> (if you are using a bookmap)
                        there are no other variables you put on the front page. I also was not able
                        to find a way to style the <codeph translate="no">&lt;booktitlealt></codeph>
                        to provide subtitle content - which means I had to omit it.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Back covers</b> - There is currently no way to add a back cover to your
                        PDF document.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Footers</b> - Configuration of footer content is very limited. You can add
                        page numbers and even some text, but all footer content must be styled the
                        same way. So if your page number is right-aligned and bold, so will any text
                        be that you put in there. Basically, footers in theme files are good for
                        page numbers, and anything else, like copyright text, would be better placed
                        elsewhere in your document.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Tables</b> - I could find no way to style table cell borders or
                        content.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Heading levels</b> - You can only style headings as far as H4. H5 and H6
                        headings are styled in the output but there is no way change this currently.
                        Although you can style <codeph translate="no">&lt;example></codeph> and
                            <codeph translate="no">&lt;section></codeph> titles.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Lists</b> - List item markers (numbers or bullets) cannot be styled.</p>
                    <p>Embedded lists (lists within lists) are not styled differently from their
                        parent. An embedded numbered list will be styled 1, 2, 3, etc. rather than
                        a, b, c, or i, ii, iii for example. Embedded unordered lists use the same
                        bullet style as their parent list.</p>
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p>Despite all of the above, the theme file feature is in active development, and the
                DITA-OT developer Jarno Elovirta has said he would continue to add new features in
                upcoming releases. Hopefully some of the issues outlined above will be addressed in
                release 4.1.</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
