<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_gw5_v3j_twb">
    <title>Working with theme files</title>
    <body>
        <p>The <tt translate="no">libexec/docsrc/samples/themes</tt> folder within the 4.0 (and
            later) release of the DITA-OT contains several sample theme files. The most useful of
            which is the <xref
                href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/blob/develop/samples/themes/dita-ot-docs-theme.yaml"
                format="html" scope="external">dita-ot-docs-theme.yaml</xref> file. It's a long file
            which I won't reproduce here but click on the link to go to DITA-OT docs GitHub
            repository to see it in full.</p>
        <p>The easiest way to work with theme files to copy and edit your own version of the <tt
                translate="no">dita-ot-docs-theme.yaml</tt>.</p>
        <section id="section_xf4_2rq_twb">
            <title>What can theme files do?</title>
            <p>Even though theme files are not as powerful as custom plugins, there is still a wide
                range of things you can do with them:</p>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <p>Define page, size, orientation and margins.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Define headers and footers.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Create a cover page and add an image and title to it.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Style a range of block level and inline elements.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Create style variables that you can use elsewhere in the theme file.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p>Extend existing theme files to produce variants (e.g. versions of the
                        document in A4 and US Letter formats).</p>
                </li>
            </ul>
            <p>The <xref href="https://www.dita-ot.org/4.0/topics/pdf-themes.html" format="html"
                    scope="external">DITA-OT website</xref> contains a reasonably good quickstart
                guide which, coupled with the sample theme file, are enough to get you started. A
                knowledge of XSL-FO properties (or at least CSS) would really help but a little
                trial and error, and practice styling some basic PDF output will prove fruitful.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_skb_fwx_twb" props="pdf">
            <p>The following videos from the 2022 DITA-OT Day conference explain about the feature's
                raison d'être.</p>
            <p><object width="560" height="315" data="https://youtu.be/iQHhp9vZCow"
                    outputclass="iframe"/></p>
            <p><object width="560" height="315" data="https://youtu.be/N602wR7qoNE"
                    outputclass="iframe"/></p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
