<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_y4m_kwc_5wb">
    <title>Configuring the dita-ot-action</title>
    <body>
        <p>There are several ways to configure the <i>dita-ot-action</i> GitHub Action. The <xref
                href="https://www.dita-ot.org/dev/topics/using-github-actions.html" format="html"
                scope="external">DITA-OT website</xref> contains detailed instructions and several
            sample workflow files are provided in the <tt>docsrc/samples/github-actions</tt> folder
            within the DITA-OT install folder, and on the <xref
                href="https://github.com/dita-ot/docs/tree/develop/samples/github-actions"
                format="html" scope="external">DITA-OT docs GitHub repository</xref>.</p>
        <p>The use of <xref keyref="automating-builds/project-files"/> is the simplest course of action when building
            using the <i>dita-ot-action</i> because a lot of the configuration is in the project
            file itself and does not have to be added to the workflow YAML file.</p>
        <section id="section_kbc_5zc_5wb">
            <title>Installing community plugins </title>
            <p>There are a limited number of very basic plugins included with the DITA-OT. However,
                other community developed plugins are available via the <xref
                    href="https://www.dita-ot.org/plugins" format="html" scope="external">DITA-OT
                    plugin registry</xref>. These can be installed most easily using the <tt>dita
                    install</tt> command as in the following excerpt:</p>
            <pre outputclass="yaml">...

jobs:
  build-dita:
    name: Build DITA
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Git checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - name: Build HTML5
        id: DITA-build
        uses: dita-ot/dita-build-action@master
        with:
          <b>install: |
            dita install fox.jason.extend.css
            dita install net.infotexture.dita-bootstrap
            dita install fox.jason.prismjs</b>
          build:  |
            dita --project=myproject.xml  
...</pre>
        </section>
        <p>The above example also happens to install <tt>nodejs</tt> and <tt>apt-utils</tt> which
            are dependencies of the <tt>net.infotexture.dita-bootstrap</tt> plugin.</p>
        <section id="section_mdc_kcd_5wb">
            <title>Installing custom plugins</title>
            <p>Most companies that use DITA will have developed custom DITA-OT plugins at some
                point. There are two ways to add a custom plugin: via a <xref
                    href="https://www.dita-ot.org/dev/topics/plugins-registry.html#plugin-registry__adding-custom-registries"
                    format="html" scope="external">custom registry</xref> or, the old-fashioned way,
                via a plugin ZIP archive. The former method involves forking the DITA-OT plugin
                registry, uploading your plugins to it, and creating a JSON registry file for each
                plugin. This is only worthwhile in my opinion if you have a lot of custom plugins,
                and a lot of folks installing and uninstalling them on a regular basis. As far as
                GitHub actions are concerned, simply installing a plugin as a ZIP archive from
                another repository is a lot easier.</p>
            <p>To do this, upload you custom plugin files unzipped to a dedicated branch in a GitHub
                repository. GitHub zips the content in the background and you can install the ZIP
                archive by passing it as a URL to the <tt>dita install</tt> command.</p>
            <p>The following example installs a plugin from a user (myCompany) repository
                (DITA-plugins) custom_pdf branch.</p>
            <pre outputclass="yaml">...

jobs:
  build-dita:
    name: Build DITA
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Git checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - name: Build Custom PDF
        id: DITA-build
        uses: dita-ot/dita-build-action@master
        with:
          <b>install: |
            dita install https://github.com/myCompany/DITA-plugins/archive/custom_pdf.zip</b>
          build:  |
            dita --project=myproject.xml  
...</pre>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
